Report Task #1


1. I downloaded "The C programming language 2nd edition book" (pdf version) from "https://epdf.pub/the-c-programming-language-second-edition.html" 
   and use Adobe Acrobat DC to open the file.

2. I downloaded, installed and configured Code::Blocks application on my computer to compose and compile programs there.
   The app is downloaded from "http://www.codeblocks.org/downloads/26" (codeblocks-20.03mingw-setup.exe)

3. I read the beginning of the chapter 1---the section 1.1 and excecuted the EX 1-1 and Ex 1-2.


Recommendations 
To read on Wiki about:

a) C programming language
I learnt that C is one of the programming languages like phython, C++ or Java.
However, it is neither a high level language nor a big one, and is not specialized to 
any particular area of application. C was originally designed for and implemented on the UNIX operating system by Dennis  Ritchie.


b) IDE (Integrated Development Environment)
I learnt IDE is a software applcation that enables programmers to conslidate the different aspects of writing a computer program.
IDEs increase programmer productivity by combining common activities of writing software into a single application---editng source code, building excutables, and debugging.
Basically, IDES makes programming easier and simpler.

c) Code::Blocks
I learnt Code::Blocks is a free open source, croos platform, C, C++ and Fotran IDE built for everyone to utilize. 
It offers all the features one needs and also has a consistent look across the platforms. 
It is also a suitable platform for a beginner like me to start learning programming. 


To read all before chapter 1 of the C Programming language book:

Done. It is mainly about what C programming language is, but deeper than the one in WIKI. 
It also introduced me with what I will learn in the book like Chapter 1 let I see the outlook of the C, whereas Chapter 2 deals with the basic data types, operators and expressions.
There are 3 appendixes which allow me to refer some terms or definitions.

Overall, C is  a pleasant, expressive, and versatile language for a wide vatiety of programs. 
So, it is suitable for not just for progamming amatuers, but also for beginners like me.


Addition:
In Chapter 1: 1.1 Getting Started

I learnt to utilize the Code::Blocks to code the C program, and understood of what the 
language looks like as well as the fundamental (terms and definitions) of C itself. 
I spent time to do try and error as in Ex. 1.1 in which I have provided the photo for you to see.

I also refered to youtube video that explains the C to beginners from "youtube.com/watch?v=KJgsSFOSQv0&t=3633s" as I initially did not understand about how C works despite the fact that
I had read the book itself. Eventually I have a firmer concept of C. 


29/3/20 
Naruesorn Dechnorachai 