Report Task #1


1. I downloaded "The C programming language 2nd edition book" (pdf version) from "https://epdf.pub/the-c-programming-language-second-edition.html" 
   and use Adobe Acrobat DC to open the file.

2. I downloaded, installed and configured Code::Blocks application on my computer to compose and compile programs there.
   The app is downloaded from "http://www.codeblocks.org/downloads/26" (codeblocks-20.03mingw-setup.exe)

3. I read the beginning of the chapter 1---the section 1.1 and excecuted the EX 1-1 and Ex 1-2.


Recommendations 
To read on Wiki about:

a) C programming language
I learnt that C is one of the programming languages like phython, C++ or Java.
However, it is neither a high level language nor a big one, and is not specialized to 
any particular area of application. C was originally designed for and implemented on the UNIX operating system by Dennis  Ritchie.


b) IDE (Integrated Development Environment)
I learnt IDE is a software applcation that enables programmers to conslidate the different aspects of writing a computer program.
IDEs increase programmer productivity by combining common activities of writing software into a single application---editng source code, building excutables, and debugging.
Basically, IDES makes programming easier and simpler.

c) Code::Blocks
I learnt Code::Blocks is a free open source, croos platform, C, C++ and Fotran IDE built for everyone to utilize. 
It offers all the features one needs and also has a consistent look across the platforms. 
It is also a suitable platform for a beginner like me to start learning programming. 


To read all before chapter 1 of the C Programming language book:

Done. It is mainly about what C programming language is, but deeper than the one in WIKI. 
It also introduced me with what I will learn in the book like Chapter 1 let I see the outlook of the C, whereas Chapter 2 deals with the basic data types, operators and expressions.
There are 3 appendixes which allow me to refer some terms or definitions.

Overall, C is  a pleasant, expressive, and versatile language for a wide vatiety of programs. 
So, it is suitable for not just for progamming amatuers, but also for beginners like me.


Addition:
In Chapter 1: 1.1 Getting Started

I learnt to utilize the Code::Blocks to code the C program, and understood of what the 
language looks like as well as the fundamental (terms and definitions) of C itself. 
I spent time to do try and error as in Ex. 1.1 in which I have provided the photo for you to see.

I also refered to youtube video that explains the C to beginners from "youtube.com/watch?v=KJgsSFOSQv0&t=3633s" as I initially did not understand about how C works despite the fact that
I had read the book itself. Eventually I have a firmer concept of C. 


Section  1.2 Variables nad Arithmetic Expressions

1. I learnt about how to program the table of Fahrenheit-Celsius degree conversion. The program is not too complicated as there is a guideline for me to work on.
   At this time, the program allowed me to explore the new ideas including comments, declarations, variables, arithmetic expressions, loops, and formatted output.
   
   -Variables I learnt: int, 
                        char, 
                        short, 
                        long, 
                        double, 
                        float. However, I only tried int, char and float.
   -Loop I learnt: while.
   -learnt how "printf()" funtcion works: the % construction or format specifiers like 
                                          %d (integers), 
                                          %f (float), 
                                          %s (string or character array), 
                                          %c (a character),
                                          %o (octal) unsure what it is,
                                          %x (hexadecimal) unsure what it is,
                                          %% (% itself)   
     -The difference between "float" and "int" is "float" can cotains decimal or fractional part while "int" cannot. Therefore, "float" is more accurate. 
      Rule of % construction: %f/d     print as floating point/integer
                              %6f    print as floating point, at least 6 characters wide
                              %.2f   print as floating point, 2 characters after decimal point
                              %6.2f  print as floating point, at least 6 wide nad 2 after decimal point

2. I did the Ex. 1-3 and Ex. 1-4, which you can check from the files and photos. It was quite challenging at first as I spent about two hours to figure out on how to do both of them 
   as I have to be familiar with the program and to get the outlook out of it by watching the tutorial in youtube and reading the book.


Section 1.3 The For Statement 

1. I learnt to make the same temperature table with the "for" statement and the program was much simpler.  
   "for" statement is a loop like "while" and in fact it is a generalization of "while".
   I also learnt diffrence of "for" and "while": "for" is usually for loops in which the initialization and increment are single statements and logically related.
                                                 "while" keeps the loop control statements in one place.
   However, it is not really that clear to me use them both effiiently as I still have to be more familar.

2. I did Ex. 1-5 and I spent an hour to think but unable to modify a certain part, so I asked for your assistance.


29/3/20 
Naruesorn Dechnorachai 